Add more info to custom domain page (#47)
flightcontrolhq/website: motif-docs/pages/guides/advanced/custom-domains.mdx

---
heading: Beyond the basics
title: Adding a Custom Domain
description: Connect your custom domain to your service created with Flightcontrol
noTOC: false
---

import { Collapse } from '@components/ui/collapse.mdx'
import { Image } from '@components/ui/image.mdx'
import { Note } from '@components/ui/note.mdx'

> ## Flightcontrol Recommendation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Root Domains Recommends
```

> ### Use a Subdomain Instead of the Root Domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the `www` Subdomain Instead of the Root Domain
```

We recommend you add a subdomain (i.e.: use `www.example.com`) instead of directly referencing the root domain (`example.com`).

If you go with this recommendation but still want users to be able to use `example.com`, please contact us and we will add a redirection for you.

> ### Domain Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Root Domain Requires ALIAS Support
```

> If you still prefer to setup a root domain, make sure that it accepts an ALIAS DNS Record, which is a custom one not supported by all providers.
> We know Namecheap supports it, but any with that feature will work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still prefer to setup a root domain, make sure that it accepts an ALIAS DNS Record, which is a custom one not supported by all providers (Namecheap is one that does).
```

> ## Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup Your Custom Domain
```

To connect a custom domain, you'll need to follow these high-level steps:

> 1. Add the domain to your service configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the domain to your Flightcontrol service configuration
```

2. Retrieve the DNS changes needed for the domain redirect in the Flightcontrol dashboard
3. Apply the changes to your domain provider

> ### Add The Domain To Your Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add The Domain To Your Flightcontrol Service
```

#### Using The UI

If you've created your project using the UI, you can add your domain to the `Custom Domain` field of the service you desire.
To access it, go to the environment where your service is, then click "Edit" and scroll to the "Services" section then save the changes.

#### Using `flightcontrol.json`

If your project is configured using `flightcontrol.json`, you'll need to add the `domain` config to your service then push the changes to trigger a new deployment.

### DNS Changes

> Once the domain information is saved and there is a deployment, the required DNS changes will be visible in the Flightcontrol dashboard, in the environment where your service is at.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the domain information is saved, we trigger a new deployment. Once this happens, the required DNS changes will be visible in the Flightcontrol dashboard, in the environment for this servicet.
```

  set. An ALIAS record is a custom DNS record and it is not supported by all providers. This is one
  of the reasons why we do not recommend root domains.
</Note>

### Apply Changes To Your Domain Provider

The specific instructions will depend on whether you are setting up a root or subdomain,

#### For a Subdomain

The DNS changes for a subdomain are the most straightforward. As you can see from the screenshot above, you'll get 2 CNAME records.

You'll need to add those records to your domain provider.

Here are some guides from different providers:

- <a
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
    href="https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/434/2237/how-do-i-set-up-host-records-for-a-domain/"
  >
    Namecheap (External article)
  </a>
- <a
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
    href="https://support.google.com/domains/answer/3290350?authuser=0&hl=en#zippy=%2Ctype-of-resource-record%2Cadd-a-resource-record"
  >
    Google Domains (External article)
  </a>
- <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://ca.godaddy.com/help/add-a-cname-record-19236">
    GoDaddy (External article)

>   </a>

Reviewer: These need to use the `Link` component for consistant stying

However, please note that that Flightcontrol can't verify if the ALIAS record was setup correctly since this record type is an internal translation and won’t appear in the nameserver response.
So we only just check if CNAME is correct and assume the setup has been successful.

Lastly, if you have used Route53 as your domain provider, your domain needs to be in the same account as the service AND you'll need to configure things slightly differently.
When you create the ALIAS record, instead of using the CloudFront domain, you have to choose the exact Cloudfront distribution that was created by Flightcontrol.

## Wildcard Domains

Besides the 2 options discussed at length, we also support wildcard domains, i.e.:
`"domain": "*.example.com"`

With this option you can make use of the `HOST` HTTP Request Header sent to your app to see the exact domain being used and the configuration is the same as for the subdomain.

## FAQ

<Collapse title="I have added the domain but still haven't made the DNS changes. Can I still access my service?">
  Yes, you can still access the service using the random generated

>   `[x.cloudfront.net](http://x.cloudfront.net)` domain. This domain can be found under AWS Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `x.cloudfront.net` domain. This domain can be found under AWS Resources
```
